# PlexSort
Bulk renames filenames of TV show episodes according to season in a format easily recognized by Plex media servers.
PlexSort is useful when you have a TV series with many episodes and need to rename every episode to a format like "ShowName s01e001.mkv". This program is in its early stages of development and should not, by any means, be considered stable.

# Restrictions
PlexSort is currently only supported in GNU/Linux and Windows. Don't expect this to work in a fresh installation of macOS without any additional software. This is meant for SSH/CLI administration of headless servers, so no GUI unless someone wants to pay me to make it. Your server doesn't need to be headless or have a SSH service running, but you will need basic Linux command line skills to use PlexSort. 

Windows support has been very recently added and I'm still working on fixing some of the bugs that came with bringing the code to another OS. Here's the link to the Dirent header that made this possible: https://github.com/tronkko/dirent

# How to use (Linux)
You can execute this like any C program once it is compiled. We'll say you compiled PlexSort.c in your user's home folder and renamed a.out to "PlexSort". Next you navigate to the directory where your TV series is located. I'd recommend you remove anything unnecessary in the directory beforehand, but it shouldn't matter too much. Execute PlexSort in the current directory with "~/PlexSort". It automatically reads your current working directory and prints it to the screen so you can confirm that it will scan the right files. It will ask you for a filename prefix; this is what every filename should have in common. So if you had "Show Name - 001 episode title.mkv" you would just enter "Show Name -" for the prefix. Next, it will ask for Season number. PlexSort will then ask for the first episode of the season's number. Next, enter the last episode number for the season. Finally it will ask for a three-letter file extension. For our example it would be "mkv". It should scan the directory and print the names of all valid files and the total number of episodes to be renamed. It will ask for confirmation; simply enter 'Y' to proceed. If you enter anything else, it will abort. Finally, the files will be renamed with the new names being printed to the screen. Make a new directory for the season, like "mkdir Season\ 01" and move the renamed files into that directory "mv Show\ Name\ s01e* Season\ 01". Repeat these steps for all consecutive seasons and Plex should successfully recognize all episodes of the series.

This is the first program I've ever produced that has nothing to do with a college assignment, so cut me some slack if my code is sloppy or inefficient. I plan to improve it over time, but wanted to release it to the world first as I think some people could really make use of it.
